DOCSP 40401 Node.js counter page (#3313)
mongodb/docs-realm: source/sdk/node/model-data/data-types/counters.txt

.. meta:: 
  :description: Learn how to implement and update counters in the Atlas Device SDK for Node.js.
  :keywords: code example

.. facet::
  :name: programming_language
  :values: javascript/typescript

.. facet::
  :name: genre
  :values: reference

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

.. versionadded:: 12.10.0

Atlas Device SDK for Node.js offers a :js-sdk:`Counter <classes/Realm.Types.Counter.html>` class
you can use as a logical counter when working with Synchronized Realms. Traditionally,
you would store a counter value and manually read, increment, set it. However, multiple clients
attempting to update the counter could result in an inaccurate underlying value across clients.
Consider the following scenario:

- A Realm object has a ``count`` property that stores an ``int``. The value is currently set
  to ``0``.
- Devices A and B both read the ``count`` value as ``0``.
- To increment the count, both devices add ``1`` to the read value and set the ``count`` to
  this new value.
- The underlying value of the ``count`` is now ``1``, though it should be ``2`` to reflect
  both devices' increments.

> The ``Counter`` class makes it possible to sync these updates so the ``counter`` converges to

Author: I changed this instance from ``counter`` to "value" to remove the monospace formatting and changed line 59ish to read "The property is initialized by using either:" instead of "The ``counter`` field is initialized by using either:"

Define a Counter Property
-------------------------

To use the ``Counter`` class, declare a property in your :js-sdk:`Realm Object<classes/Realm.Object.html>`
as type ``Counter``. 

You can optionally declare this property as nullable by making it optional and passing both 
``Counter`` and ``null`` as types. With a nullable counter, you can set the counter property
within your Realm Object to ``null`` as needed.

The ``Counter`` field is initialized by using either:

- Object notation

  - ``{ type: "int", presentation: "counter" }``
  - ``{ type: "int", presentation: "counter", optional: true }``

- Shorthand

  - ``"counter"``
  - ``"counter?"``

.. tabs-realm-languages::

    .. tab::
      :tabid: typescript
    
      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/data-types.test.snippet.declare-counter-schema.ts 
          :language: typescript
    
    .. tab::
      :tabid: javascript

      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/data-types.test.snippet.declare-counter-schema.js
          :language: javascript

Create and Update a Counter
---------------------------

To initialize a counter, create your object using the ``realm.create()`` method. Pass in your

> desired :ref:`Realm Object Schema <node-define-a-realm-object-schema>` and initial counter

Reviewer: is it "the desired schema"? or the schema that contains the counter property?

Author: Heard -- I ended up just dropping the word "desired" from that sentence.

    
    .. tab::
      :tabid: javascript

      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/data-types.test.snippet.initialize-counter.js
          :language: javascript

You can then use the following :js-sdk:`methods<classes/Realm.Types.Counter.html#decrement>` to
modify the counter value:

- ``increment()`` and ``decrement()`` update the underlying value by a specified number.
- ``set()`` reassigns the counter to a specified value.

.. tabs-realm-languages::

    .. tab::
      :tabid: typescript
    
      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/data-types.test.snippet.update-counter.ts 
          :language: typescript
    
    .. tab::
      :tabid: javascript

      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/data-types.test.snippet.update-counter.js
          :language: javascript

.. warning:: Counter Resets

   Use caution when using ``set()``, as it overwrites any prior calls to ``increment()`` and
   ``decrement()``. Depending on the order of operations, this can result in the counter
   converging on a different value. To avoid inaccurate counter values across clients, we
   recommend not mixing ``set()`` with ``increment()`` and ``decrement()``.

> To update a nullable counter (either *to* or *from* a ``null`` value), you must use

Reviewer: [style] [avoid parentheses in running text](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/style/punctuation/#std-label-punctuation:~:text=Avoid%20parentheses%20in%20running%20text.) 
Alternatively, you could set it off with a comma
```suggestion
To update a nullable counter, either *to* or *from* a ``null`` value, you must use
```

``realm.create()`` with an :js-sdk:`UpdateMode <enums/Realm.UpdateMode.html#All>`

> specified. Rather than updating the underlying counter value, this sets the counter

Reviewer: [style] "rather" typically implies a preference, whereas "instead" implies a choice
```suggestion
specified. Instead of updating the underlying counter value, this sets the counter
```

property either to null or to a new counter.

> ``UpdateMode`` updates any existing Counter object with a matching primary key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``UpdateMode`` updates any existing Counter object with a matching primary key, according to the specified mode:
```

- ``UpdateMode.All`` updates all properties provided.
- ``UpdateMode.Modified`` updates only modified properties.

.. tabs-realm-languages::

>     .. tab::
>       :tabid: typescript
>     
>       .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/data-types.test.snippet.null-updating.ts 
>           :language: typescript
>     
>     .. tab::
>       :tabid: javascript
> 
>       .. literalinclude::  /examples/generated/node/data-types.test.snippet.null-updating.js
>           :language: javascript

Reviewer: [suggestion] might be helpful to highlight the lines where we're calling 
`realm.create()` with the `UpdateMode` (you can use the `emphasize-lines` option, then specify the line numbers)
 ```suggestion
    .. tab::
      :tabid: typescript
      :emphasize-lines: 8, 12
    
      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/data-types.test.snippet.null-updating.ts 
          :language: typescript
    
    .. tab::
      :tabid: javascript
      :emphasize-lines: 8, 12

      .. literalinclude::  /examples/generated/node/data-types.test.snippet.null-updating.js
          :language: javascript
```

Query Counter Values
--------------------

You can query counter properties like other property types. However, to query by the 

> underlying counter value, you must create a :ref:`parameterized
> query<rql-parameterized-queries>` using ``counter.value`` as an interpolated variable. In the

Reviewer: I know it's what's on the current RQL page, but it's not the most clear language (as an aside, I have a PR for the [overhauled RQL page](https://preview-mongodbcbullinger.gatsbyjs.io/realm/docsp-36298-rql/sdk/crud/query-engines/realm-query-language/) as part of the consolidation project, which hopefully uses more straightforward verbiage)
```suggestion
underlying counter value, you must pass the ``counter.value`` in a :ref:`parameterized
query<rql-parameterized-queries>`. In the
```

.. _node-data-types-counters:

=========================
Counters - Node.js SDK
=========================

.. meta:: 
  :description: Learn how to implement and update counters in the Atlas Device SDK for Node.js.

.. facet::
  :name: genre
  :values: reference

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

.. versionadded:: 12.10.0

Atlas Device SDK for Node.js offers a ''Counter'' class that you can use as a synchronized logical
counter across different clients. Traditionally, you would create a variable that you would
manually add or subtract from to act as a counter. However, if multiple clients are attempting
to update said variable, changes to the underlying value may arrive out of order. This can
result in varying or inaccurate values across clients. The ''Counter'' class makes it possible to
sync these updates so the counter converges to the same value across all clients.

> The counter data type is an ''int'' presented as a counter. This allows the counter to behave like
> an ''int'' while supporting the class’s methods. Because implicit coercion into a ''number'' is not
> supported, the JavaScript ''number'' methods cannot be leveraged against the counter value.
> Migration will also be necessary for existing counters that are not ''int'' types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SDK's :sdk-js:`counter <classes/Realm.Types.Counter.html>` is a presentation 
data type, with an underlying type of ``int``. 
Due to current TypeScript limitations, the SDK does not support using ``valueOf()`` to implicitly convert a counter to a number.
This means that migration is required when changing an ``int`` type to a ``counter``.
```
[suggestion] use active voice 
[suggestion] revise slightly for conciseness  
[suggestion] include link to API ref docs

Counters cannot be used as:

- Mixed values
- Primary keys
- Elements in a collection
- Query arguments for placeholders while filtering
  - See Querying with Counters below

Declaring a Counter
-------

To use the ''Counter'', you first declare a field for it in a property schema. You can optionally 
declare the ''counter'' field as a nullable counter if needed in your use case. This allows the 
''counter'' field within the class to be set to ''null'', though the counter value itself can never 

> be ''null''. The ''Counter'' field is declared by using either:

Author: I think I want to keep the nullability out of the properties above but I'm not entirely sure how I would want to go about doing that. I'll set up time to talk to you about that in more detail

> - ''"counter”''

Reviewer 2: Note the `”` (vs `"`)

> - ''{ type: "int", presentation: "counter" }''

Author: I tried combining `this comment <https://github.com/mongodb/docs-realm/pull/3313/files#r1653363239>__` here but I'm not sure if it's better or not

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/data-types.test.snippet.declare-counter-schema.ts 
  :language: typescript

Initializing and Updating a Counter
-----
You can initialize the counter by using the ''realm.create()'' method and passing the desired 
schema and initial values for the properties. 

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/data-types.test.snippet.initialize-counter.ts 
  :language: typescript

You then use the ''increment()'' and ''decrement()'' methods to update the value. 
There is also a ''set()'' method that resets the counter to a specified value:

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/data-types.test.snippet.update-counter.ts 
  :language: typescript

.. warning:: Counter Resets
   Using ''set()'' will ignore any prior calls to ''increment()'' and ''decrement()''. Subsequent calls 
   will be applied as expected to the reset counter value. As such, you should be cautious 
   in mixing ''set()'' with ''increment()'' and ''decrement()'' as it can lead to inaccurate counter 
   values across clients.

> Once a counter is created, the value can only be changed by using the class’s methods. 
> Attempting to change the counter value manually or by updating the object and overwriting 
> the counter value will result in an error. The only exception is when using a nullable counter; 
> you can create a counter from a previously ''null'' value or reset the nullable counter to ''null''. 
> This is because you are updating the value of the field from either ''null'' to ''counter'' or ''counter'' 
> to ''null'', not the value of the counter itself. This is done using ''realm.create()'' with the 
> ''UpdateMode.Modified'' or ''UpdateMode.All'' parameters. These parameters update objects that already 
> exist, as indicated by a matching primary key. ''UpdateMode.All'' updates all properties provided, 
> while ''UpdateMode.Modified'' updates only modified properties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To update a nullable counter (either _to_ or _from_ a ``null`` value), you must 
use ``realm.create()`` with an 
:js-sdk:`UpdateMode <enums/Realm.UpdateMode.html#Modified>` specified. 
Rather than updating the underlying counter value, you are creating a new counter 
value from ``null`` (or reassigning ``null`` to a nullable counter). 

``UpdateMode`` updates any existing Counter object with a matching primary key:

- ``UpdateMode.All`` updates all properties provided.
- ``UpdateMode.Modified`` updates only modified properties.
```
[suggestion] This is a pretty dense paragraph, making it difficult to parse. Let's break it up so it's easier to read, and make sure we're clearly communicating what's important 
[suggestion] include links out to API ref docs
[style] Use active voice

Author: During an initial review you had mentioned wanting to call out an error. I added some of the verbiage about triggering an error to address this, should I remove it completely or find another place to communicate that?

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/data-types.test.snippet.null-updating.ts 
  :language: typescript

Querying with Counters
----------------------------

> In scenarios where you may want to use a counter value as a placeholder argument while
> querying, you must use ''counter.value'' as seen below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can query counter properties like other property types. However, to query by the 
underlying counter value, you must use ``counter.value`` as a placeholder value:
```
[suggestion] revise for conciseness and clarity

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/data-types.test.snippet.filtering-with-counter.ts 

>   :language: typescript

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  :language: typescript

For more information on querying with the SDK, refer to :ref:`realm-query-language`. 

```
[suggestion] include link to the RQL ref page
[formatting] include a newline at the end of each source file (you can also automate this with VSCode extensions)
